Teacher Candidate: 



Student Diversity and Differentiation of Instruction:
Identify small groups of students who will need differentiated instruction for this lesson.


Teaching Strategies and Related Student Activities: What are the teaching strategies and activities that you plan to use to help students meet the lesson’s objectives? What are the steps that you will take to deliver this lesson? Make this section as detailed as possible. It should encompass the lesson bell to bell and allow you to hand the plan off to a substitute teacher. 
Ensure you include active engagement strategies, such cooperative learning, hands-on activities, or inquiry-based learning approaches.
Integrate high-impact instructional strategies that promote deep learning and critical thinking, such as scaffolding, modeling, or peer teaching to support student understanding and engagement.
Note where you will integrate technology.
Include interdisciplinary connections when possible.
Include discussion questions that you would like students to discuss in class, before class or after class because they are interesting, support higher order thinking, and make for a lively and engaging discussion. Also note if each activity is primarily an “I do”, “You do”, or “We do” activity.
















=== TABLES ===

--- Table 1 ---
Lesson Title: 
Grade Level and Course: ex: 9th grade Biology
Lesson Length:  | Overarching Unit Goal(s): 




Learning Standard(s) addressed in lesson (NGSS, etc.): 
ex: NGSS HS-LS2-6. Evaluate claims, evidence, and reasoning that the complex interactions in ecosystems maintain relatively consistent numbers and types of organisms in stable conditions, but changing conditions may result in a new ecosystem.

 | Learning Standard(s) addressed in lesson (NGSS, etc.): 
ex: NGSS HS-LS2-6. Evaluate claims, evidence, and reasoning that the complex interactions in ecosystems maintain relatively consistent numbers and types of organisms in stable conditions, but changing conditions may result in a new ecosystem.


Target InTASC Standard(s) for the lesson: 
ex: InTASC Standards 1, 2, 3 | Target InTASC Standard(s) for the lesson: 
ex: InTASC Standards 1, 2, 3
Learning Objective: By the end of the lesson, students will be able to ...
Read the article here from the Center for Teaching Excellence for a concise overview of how to create effective learning objectives. Use higher-ordered verbs from Bloom’s Taxonomy to ensure your objectives are rigorous and achievable.
ex: 1. Students will be able to identify and describe the pathways of the digestive system. | Learning Objective: By the end of the lesson, students will be able to ...
Read the article here from the Center for Teaching Excellence for a concise overview of how to create effective learning objectives. Use higher-ordered verbs from Bloom’s Taxonomy to ensure your objectives are rigorous and achievable.
ex: 1. Students will be able to identify and describe the pathways of the digestive system.
Formative Assessments:
How will you know if your students have met the learning objective(s) for this lesson? Consider pre-assessments, self-assessments, peer-assessments, and other types of formative assessments, too. Include open ended questions that will lead students to think deeply about the content and will also build on prior knowledge.





 | Formative Assessments:
How will you know if your students have met the learning objective(s) for this lesson? Consider pre-assessments, self-assessments, peer-assessments, and other types of formative assessments, too. Include open ended questions that will lead students to think deeply about the content and will also build on prior knowledge.






Big Ideas or Essential Questions:

ex: Perseverance, determination, and resilience help us face and overcome challenges. | Target academic language, vocabulary, and literacy skills:








Prior knowledge: 


 | Prior knowledge: 



Learning Theories: Select the learning theory or theories will you draw on in planning this lesson? Then briefly explain how the theories are guiding your lesson planning:


In 4-5 sentences, explain how the theories you chose are guiding your lesson planning:







 | Learning Theories: Select the learning theory or theories will you draw on in planning this lesson? Then briefly explain how the theories are guiding your lesson planning:


In 4-5 sentences, explain how the theories you chose are guiding your lesson planning:









--- Table 2 ---
Group | Group Diversity | Differentiation of Instruction
ex: A. C. | ex: ELL/MLL | 

 |  | 

 |  | 

 |  | 


--- Table 3 ---
Minutes | Activity | Description | I do, We do, You do
ex: 3 | warm-up |  | 
 |  |  | 
 |  |  | 
 |  |  | 
 |  |  | 

--- Table 4 ---
21st Century Knowledge and Skills: Select the 21st century knowledge and skills integrated and taught in this lesson, then note the related teaching activities or strategies. Note the 5C’s are central to your students’ abilities to be life-long learners.

 

Which teaching strategies or activities incorporate the 21st Century skills you’ve chosen?






--- Table 5 ---
Science and Engineering Practices: Science and engineering practices (SEPs) refer to the skills and methods that scientists and engineers use to investigate the natural world and solve problems. Name the practices incorporated in this lesson and identify which teaching strategies relate to each practice used.



--- Table 6 ---
Review
Write down ideas on how you will review the topic after this lesson, before moving on to the next lesson (ex: homework, entry ticket, warm up)






--- Table 7 ---
Thinking ahead 


--- Table 8 ---
Necessary Materials, Technology, and Websites









--- Table 9 ---
References 




